0

Here's a way to reset IDLE's default working directory for MacOS if you launch Idle as an application by double-clicking it. You need a different solution if you launch Idle from a command line in Terminal. This solution is a permanent fix. You don't have to rechange the directory everytime you launch IDLE. I wish it were easier.

The idea is to edit a resource file inside of the IDLE package in Applications.

    Start by finding the the file. In Finder, go to IDLE in Applications (in the Python folder) as if you wanted to open it. Right click and select "show package contents". Open Contents, then open Resources. In Resources, you'll see a file called idlemain.py. This file executes when you launch idle and sets, among other things, the working directory. We're going to edit that.

    But before you can edit it, you need to give yourself permission to write to it. To do that, right click on the idlemain.py and select get info. Scroll to the bottom of the getinfo window and you'll see the Sharing & Permissions section. On the bottom right there's a lock icom. Click the lock and follow the prompts to unlock it. Once it's unlocked, look to the left for the + (under the list of users with permissions). Click it. That will bring up a window with a list of users you can add. Select yourself (probably the name of your computer or your user account) and click Select. You'll see yourself added to the list of names with permissions. Click where is says "Read only" next to your name and change it to "Read & Write". Be careful not to change anything else. When you're done, click the lock again to lock the changes.

    Now go back to idlemain.py and open it with any text editor (you could use Idle, TextEdit, or anything. Right under the import statement at the top is the code to change the default working directory. Read the comment if you like, then replace the single line of code under the comment with

    os.chdir('path of your desired working directory')

Mine looks like this:

os.chdir('/Users/MyName/Documents/Python')

    Save your changes (which should work because you gave yourself permission). Next time you start Idle, you should be in your desired working directory. You can check with the following commands:

    import os
    os.getcwd()
