There is only one visit to Brazil listed in the draft activities table, in March. However, we understood that you intended to hold two international site visits/year. If so, when is the second 2020 visit scheduled?  Also, could you give us some background on who (at least in a general way, such as “regulators” or “Ministry officials”) you will be inviting to each of these visits?  This information will enable us to reach out to the potential host teams more effectively for making arrangements.  

Since we are postponing the next regulatory workshop, originally planned for Accra, until March, and you have identified March 9-13 for the first international site visit, it seems preferable to target other weeks in March for the workshop.  Will there be any overlap of participants who might be invited to the workshop and the Brazil trip, or of AUDA-NEPAD staff who might be needed for both activities? Please note Hector will be accompanying the Brazil trip and therefore wouldn’t be available for a workshop during that week.  Are there other specific weeks in March that would work for you to hold the workshop?

For the March workshop, Jeremy recommended that the venue change to Mali.  However, that country is under a Level 4 travel advisory by the US State Department. While the political value of having the workshop in Mali is clear, FNIH management cannot support staff travel to an area under a US “do not travel” alert. Would it still be acceptable to keep the venue in Accra? 

At our meeting, we agreed on the opportunity for collaboration under your Objectives 1 and 3.  However, we are having some difficulty identifying which activities in the activities table relate to FNIH.  Do you envision a role for us in activities 3.1.1, 1.1.1 or 3.1.3?  For example, on activity 3.1.3, will that training involve FNIH and WMU, or will that be entirely a NEPAD-AUDA activity? If FNIH and WMU will be involved, could you give us a firmer idea of the anticipated subject matter for that training (the 5 areas listed)?  This would be very helpful to us to ensure that we are adequately prepared.  

Thinking about the additional regulatory capacity strengthening consultations as we suggested (3 in 2020 and 2 in 2021), do you envision these being part of any activities under your Objectives 3 or 1?   If all future training is to be oriented strictly to adopted guidelines, as seems the case described under 3.1.1, will there be future guidelines on risk assessment that would relate to the anticipated focus of these workshops?  

Are you interested in organizing any training on modeling in 2020?  As discussed, we expect that the answers to many of the important regulatory risk assessment questions will come from simulations until there is field experience, and we feel it will be important for regulators to be comfortable interpreting input from such simulations.  We understood your suggestion that perhaps such training should be aimed at those who would advise the regulators and agree it will be important to reach the right people.  But it would be useful to understand whether this is an activity you would be interested in initiating in 2020.

We also want to reiterate our desire to be helpful to you in any other way we can.  It occurred to us that perhaps we might be able to support your Objective 5 indirectly by helping with briefing materials or assisting in coordination with other efforts such as the Outreach Network. 
